---
title: "Week 6"
category: "Designing for Wordpress"
layout: post
tag: "DFWP"
name: "week6"
---

###Custom Login Screens

Although a wordpress plugin could take care of customizing the login sometimes it's a nice touch to do it yourself. With a few easy tweaks we can be on our way to a professional customized login screen. 

* First, create a new folder inside your theme called 'login' --this is where we'll place our associated files. 
* Next, create a file called `login-styles.css` (save this in the `/login` directory you just created)

In order for wordpress to recognize this stylesheet we need to make a link to it; we'll do this in our `functions.php` file. Add the following:


	function custom_login_css() {
		echo '&lt;link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="'.get_stylesheet_directory_uri().'/login/login-styles.css" /&gt;';
	}
	add_action('login_head', 'custom_login_css');



To get started with custom styles try changing the background color. Add the following to the login stylesheet:


	body.login {
		background: #000;
	}


Next, change the logo. You'll need to upload an image file to the `/login` directory. Use a png and make sure you add a _fitting_ width and height. The custom_login_css can be used to adjust the styles for the image. 


	.login h1 a {
		background-image: url('../login/logo.png');
		background-size: 300px 90px;
		width: 300px;
		height: 90px;
	}


With the logo changed we'll still want to change the image url -- it is still linking to [wordpress.org](http://wordpress.org). Add the following to the `functions.php` file to switch the link to your site's url.


	function my_login_logo_url() {
		return get_bloginfo( 'url' );
	}
	add_filter( 'login_headerurl', 'my_login_logo_url' );

	function my_login_logo_url_title() {
		return 'Your Site Name and Info';
	}
	add_filter( 'login_headertitle', 'my_login_logo_url_title' );



See the [Wordpress Codex](http://codex.wordpress.org/Customizing_the_Login_Form) for a full breakdown of customizing the login page. *Note:* The login page styling will force certain styles on the login screen.  A solid understanding of css selectors and semantics will be necessary to properly format/ fully customize the login screen. 
