---
title: "Overview"
category: "Designing for Wordpress"
layout: post
tag: "DFWP"
name: "overview"
---

<p>This page will serve as our hub of information. Below are weekly class summaries with downloads for PDFs discussed in class and links to helpful resources and tools. Please <a href="mailto:akaye@saic.edu">email</a> me if any questions come up!</p>

<h3>Course Description</h3>
    <p class="lead">In this course, students learn to create their own web designs in WordPress allowing for everything 
from blog integration to a full-ﬂedged content management system. While working with the 
WordPress template, students create themes that blend their own design vision with WordPress' 
robust functionality. At the end of the course, students will have a website created in WordPress 
according to their own creative vision. 
</p>

<h3 id="download-syllabus">Course Syllabus</h3>

<p><a class="btn btn-lg btn-primary" href="bin/DesigningForWordpressSyllabusFall2013.pdf">Download Syllabus</a></p>
    
<h3 id="structure1">Course Structure</h3>
<p class="lead">We have established so far that in this course we plan to learn the ins and outs of Wordpress themes. Our goals include: </p>

<ul>
    <li>Creating a basic HTML5/CSS3 site by week 3</li>
    <li>Take the basic site and turn it into a wordpress theme by week 5</li>
    <li>Week 5 marks the point where we should have a working understanding of what it takes to develop and implement a custom WP theme.</li>
    <li>Next we can choose to continue on the path of custom theme development or use those skills to 'hack' existing themes.</li>
    <li>The second half of the semester will be determined by where we end up after week 5</li>
    <li>By the end of class everyone should have a custom theme - either built from scratch or heavily modified.</li>
    <li>We'll wrap up with a discussion on where to go next with our new skill set.</li>
</ul>