---
published: true
layout: post
title: Week 5
category: 
  - cms
  - Content Management Systems
tag: "CMS"
name: "week3"
---

##Working with Jekyll


**Jekyll Directory Structure**

	    .
		├── _config.yml
		├── _drafts
		|   ├── begin-with-the-crazy-ideas.textile
		|   └── on-simplicity-in-technology.markdown
		├── _includes
		|   ├── footer.html
		|   └── header.html
		├── _layouts
		|   ├── default.html
		|   └── post.html
		├── _posts
		|   ├── 2007-10-29-why-every-programmer-should-play-nethack.textile
		|   └── 2009-04-26-barcamp-boston-4-roundup.textile
		├── _data
		|   └── members.yml
		├── _site
		└── index.html


**File/Directory** |**Description**
:---:|:---
`_config.yml` |Stores configuration data. Many of these options can be specified from the command line executable but it’s easier to specify them here so you don’t have to remember them.
`_drafts` |Drafts are unpublished posts. The format of these files is without a date: `title.MARKUP`. Learn how to work with drafts.
`_includes` |These are the partials that can be mixed and matched by your layouts and posts to facilitate reuse. The liquid tag  ` include file.ext ` can be used to include the partial in  `_includes/file.ext`.
`_layouts` |These are the templates that wrap posts. Layouts are chosen on a post-by-post basis in the YAML front matter, which is described in the next section. The liquid tag  `content` is used to inject content into the web page.
`_posts` |Your dynamic content, so to speak. The naming convention of these files is important, and must follow the format: `YEAR-MONTH-DAY-title.MARKUP`. The permalinks can be customized for each post, but the date and markup language are determined solely by the file name.
`_data` |Well-formatted site data should be placed here. The jekyll engine will autoload all yaml files (ends with `.yml` or `.yaml`) in this directory. If there's a file `members.yml` under the directory, then you can access contents of the file through `site.data.members`.
`_site` |This is where the generated site will be placed (by default) once Jekyll is done transforming it. It’s probably a good idea to add this to your `.gitignore` file.
`index.html` and other HTML, Markdown, Textile files |Provided that the file has a YAML Front Matter section, it will be transformed by Jekyll. The same will happen for any `.html`, `.markdown`,  `.md`, or `.textile` file in your site’s root directory or directories not listed above.
Other Files/Folders |Every other directory and file except for those listed above—such as `css` and `images` folders,  `favicon.ico` files, and so forth—will be copied verbatim to the generated site. There are plenty of sites already using Jekyll if you’re curious to see how they’re laid out.


##Working with Collections
	
Collections are essentially groups of posts. You can create multiple different collections in order to have more control of your content. Maybe you are making a portfolio site with a blog, an photo gallery, and a section of your work; with colections you could easily create separate sections for each of these types of content. You could use regular posts for blog posts and create a collection called photos and a collection called work.  

Collections need to be specified in the config file with:

	collections:
		my_collection_name:
			output: true

The collection will be designated by a top level folder with an underscore before the collection name. Something like `_my_collection_name`

####Collections and posts can all be addressed with [liquid variables](http://jekyllrb.com/docs/variables/)
