---
title: "Week 9"
category: "Designing for Wordpress"
layout: post
tag: "DFWP"
name: "week9"
---

## Migrating Wordpress

* Step 1 - Deactivate all plugins
* Step 2 - Navigate to `Tools -> Export` in your WP admin dashboard
* Step 3 - Click all content to pull everything from your wp installation (Note: this does not pull in things like dashboard settings, etc.)
* Step 4 - Download the export file (as XML)
* step 5 - In your new location (make sure you have installed an equivalent or newer version of Wordpress!) navigat to `Tools -> Import`
* Step 6 - Import your XML file via clicking "wordpress" in the import screen
* Step 7 - Download your theme (Both parent and child if you're using a child theme)
* Step 8 - Download all plugins in use
* Step 9 - drop your downloaded theme(s) in the themes folder in the new location and your downloaded plugins in the plugins folder
* This should populate all posts, images, authors, etc. Most of the time this should be enough to get a Wordpress site moved
* Activate the appropriate theme and activate all needed plugins and you should be good to go!

## Cloning a Wordpress Environment

This is a much more tricky process. To get a 1-to-1 clone you would need to not only download the themes and plugins, but also download the MySQL database. 
To clone your MySQL database you'll want to make sure you have access to PHPMyAdmin on both site locations (both the location you're cloning from and your final destination). Services like Pantheon or similar hosted WP platforms may allow you to export or import a full MySQL database without PHPMyAdmin. 

The general breakdown for cloning a database is:

1. Downloading a `.sql` file of your database (knowing the database name, username, and password)
2. The database information can be found in your `wp-config.php` file
3. At your destination whether using MySQL or another administration panel find the spot where you can import your database
4. Simply import your previosuly downloaded `.sql` file (This step may take a while depending on file size)
5. Next, on in your destination's wordpress files open up `wp-config.php`
6. Replace the previous information with the information correlating to the database that you're importing
7. If all went smoothly you should be able to navigate to your new site and seee everything exactly as it was in the previous location

## Wordpress Plugins

This list of plugins is a great place to start for your new Wordpress Site. Many of the plugins listed here increase the security of your site. 

*   [W3 Total Cache](http://wordpress.org/plugins/w3-total-cache/) -- Best plugin for speedy sites!
*   [Quick Page/Post Redirect](http://wordpress.org/plugins/quick-pagepost-redirect-plugin/) -- Easily add redirects (dead simple plugin).
*   [Acunetix WordPress Security Plugin](http://www.acunetix.com/websitesecurity/wordpress-security-plugin/) -- website security
*   [Limit Login Attempts](http://wordpress.org/plugins/limit-login-attempts/)
*   [Simple Login Log](http://wordpress.org/plugins/simple-login-log/)
*   [Google Analyticator](http://wordpress.org/plugins/google-analyticator/) -- easily track site analytics
*   [WP Super Cache](http://wordpress.org/plugins/wp-super-cache/) -- another cache plugin
*   [WP Smushit](http://wordpress.org/plugins/wp-smushit/) -- great for media-heavy sites


###Wordpress on your server

The recent updates to Wordpress have brought great possibilities for working with a single wordpress installation on a server. Wordpress version 3.9 has a feature called MultiSite that allows you to run separate sites off one Wordpress installation. Without multisite running multiple wordpress sites from one server meant multiple wordpress installlations. Having multiple wordpress installations can put stress on your server and result in slow loading sites. While two installations would generally never casue a noticable difference it would be best to run the sites off the same installation. 

###First: Refresher on the WP Installation Process and Manual Updates

We'll begin by running through the process of performing a manual wordpress update. Head over to [wordpress.org](http://wordpress.org) and grab the most recent download. 

###Setting up Multisite

* First, backup your site! Anytime you make changes to your server you should always perform a full site backup. Often this can easily be done in the cPanel.
* Export content from your current installation. In your WP Dashboard, go to `Tools > Export` (It is good practice to disable all plugins before export)
* Backup your mySQL database as well. 
* It is best to activate multisite from a fresh Wordpress Installation
* First open up `wp-config.php`
* Next, add `define( 'WP_ALLOW_MULTISITE', true );`
* Now log in and navigate to `Administration > Tools > Network Setup`
* Running multisite on a local machine like we'll do 
* The last step would be editing the .htaccess file. See [this link](http://codex.wordpress.org/Multisite_Network_Administration) for the specific configuration settings. 