---
published: true
layout: post
title: Week 2A
category: 
  - ahac
  - Advanced HTML & CSS
tag: "AHAC"
name: "week2A"
---

### CSS Selectors Best Practices

**Child Selectors**

Use child selectors to select elements that fall within another element. The element inside is the child. These can be selected using descendant or direct child selectors.

**Descendant Selectors** choose any child within the parent element, for example:

<code>section p { ... }</code>

With `p` being the child and `section` being the parent every `p` element within `section` will be selected. In practice:

```
<section>
  <p>This line will be selected.</p>
  <div>
    <p>This line will be selected.</p>
  </div>
</section>
```

**Direct Child Selectors** chose only the direct children of the parent element. Switching the previous example to use this method we use the following:

<code>section > p { ... }</code>

Now any elements outside the `section` element or nested inside other elements will not be selected. 

```
<section>
  <p>This line will be selected.</p>
  <div>
    <p>This line will NOT be selected because it is not a direct child.</p>
  </div>
</section>
```

**Sibling Selectors**

**General Sibling Selectors** choose elements that share a common parent. The `~` character is used to denote general siblings. 

<code>h1 ~ p { ... }</code>

In this example, all `p` elements that follow the `h1` element are siblings and will thus be selected.

```
<section>
  <p>This line will NOT be selected.</p>
  <h1>Parent</h1>
  <p>This line will be selected.</p>
  <div>
  	<p>This line will NOT be selected.</p>
  </div>
  <p>This line will be selected.</p>
</section>
```

**Adjacent Sibling Selectors** choose elements that directly follow a parent element. The `+` character is used to denote adjacent siblings. 

<code>h1 ~ p { ... }</code>

In this example, all `p` elements that follow the `h1` elements directly are adjacent siblings and will thus be selected.

```
<section>
  <p>This line will NOT be selected.</p>
  <h1>Parent</h1>
  <p>This line will be selected.</p>
  <div>
  	<p>This line will NOT be selected.</p>
  </div>
  <p>This line will NOT be selected.</p>
  <h1>Parent</h1>
  <p>This line will be selected.</p>
</section>
```

**Pseudo-classes**

Pseudo-classes function like regular classes but they are invoked relative to the actions of the user or the document structure. Pseudo-classes use the `:` character to define actions. Most commonly used, `:hover` specifies an action when the user hovers over the element. 

<code>a:hover { ... }</code>

Here are the most common action-based pseudo-classes:

- <code>a:link { ... }</code> -- A link that has not been visited
- <code>a:visited { ... }</code> -- A link that has been visited
- <code>a:hover { ... }</code> -- An element the user is currently hovering over
- <code>a:active { ... }</code> -- The element the user clicks on
- <code>a:focus { ... }</code> -- The element the user is near

**Structural Pseudo-classes** select elements according to the structure and layout of the document. These are important for responsive sites. Here's a simple example:

The selectors:

<code>
li:first-child { ... }
li:last-child { ... }
div:only-child { ... }
</code>

The HTML:


```
	<ul>
	  <li>This list item will be selected</li>
	  <li>
	    <div>This div will be selected</div>
	  </li>
	  <li>
	    <div>...</div>
	    <div>...</div>
	  </li>
	  <li>This list item will be selected</li>
	</ul>
```

The following selectors work in a similar way, but do not require parent elements like the previous selectors:

- `:first-of-type`
- `:last-of-type`
- `:only-of-type`

To get even more specific use the following selectors:

- `:nth-child(n)`
- `:nth-last-child(n)`

In practice:

`li:nth-child(3n) {...}` will choose ever 3rd list item:


```
	<ul>
	  <li>...</li>
	  <li>...</li>
	  <li>This list item will be selected</li>
	  <li>...</li>
	  <li>...</li>
	  <li>This list item will be selected</li>
	</ul>
```

Further, `li:nth-child(2n+3) {...}` will select ever second list item starting after the third list item:


```
	<ul>
	  <li>...</li>
	  <li>...</li>
	  <li>This list item will be selected</li>
	  <li>...</li>
	  <li>This list item will be selected</li>
	  <li>...</li>
	</ul>
```

Other selectors to look out for:

- `:after`
- `:before`
- `:first-letter` -- Selects and styles the first letter in a text block
- `:first-line` -- Selects and styles the first line in a text block
- `:target` -- Selects elements when the the ID matches the `#` identifier
