---
title: "Week 4B"
category: "Designing for Wordpress"
layout: post
tag: "DFWP"
name: "week8"
---

##Custom Post Types

Custom Post types can be extremely useful to include as a feature in any theme. A custom post type is like a custom page template. You can create specific looks for certain content on your site or have a custom blog. Getting setup to create a custom post type requires just a few steps. 

First, in the `functions.php` file, add the following block of code:

	add_action( 'init', 'create_post_type' );
	function create_post_type() {
	  register_post_type( 'custom_post',
	    array(
	      'labels' => array(
	        'name' => __( 'custom_post' ),
	        'singular_name' => __( 'custom_post' )
	      ),
	    'public' => true,
	    'has_archive' => true,
	    )
	  );
	}

Creating a custom post type this way will add a new tab to your administration menu in the dashboard. Treat theis the same way you use the Posts tab. 

To extend this customization you could add:

	'rewrite' => array('slug' => 'custom_post'),

This would improve your link structure in your site if that is desired. Adding a custom post type slug allows you to have a url that look like: `www.mysite.com/custom_post/post1`

To customize your custom post type create a file called `single-{custom-post}.php`

We can copy most of the code from our single.php file to use on our custom post type page. Here's an example of how to query posts of a specific type:

	$args = array( 'post_type' => 'custom_post', 'posts_per_page' => 10 );
	$loop = new WP_Query( $args );
	while ( $loop->have_posts() ) : $loop->the_post();
	  the_title();
	  echo '<div class="entry-content">';
	  the_content();
	  echo '</div>';
	endwhile;

	This would pull in the 10 most recent custom_post posts displaying the title and content of each.

	