---
title: "Week 5A"
category: "Designing for Wordpress"
layout: post
tag: "DFWP"
name: "week9"
---

###Wordpress on your server

The recent updates to Wordpress have brought great possibilities for working with a single wordpress installation on a server. Wordpress version 3.9 has a feature called MultiSite that allows you to run separate sites off one Wordpress installation. Without multisite running multiple wordpress sites from one server meant multiple wordpress installlations. Having multiple wordpress installations can put stress on your server and result in slow loading sites. While two installations would generally never casue a noticable difference it would be best to run the sites off the same installation. 

###First: Refresher on the WP Installation Process and Manual Updates

We'll begin by running through the process of performing a manual wordpress update. Head over to [wordpress.org](http://wordpress.org) and grad the most recent download. 

###Setting up Multisite

* First, backup your site! Anytime you make changes to your server you should always perform a full site backup. Often this can easily be done in the cPanel.
* Export content from your current installation. In your WP Dashboard, go to `Tools > Export` (It is good practice to disable all plugins before export)
* Backup your mySQL database as well. 
* It is best to activate multisite from a fresh Wordpress Installation
* First open up `wp-config.php`
* Next, add `define( 'WP_ALLOW_MULTISITE', true );`
* Now log in and navigate to `Administration > Tools > Network Setup`
* 
*