---
title: "Week 1"
category: "jQuery for Designers"
layout: post
tag: "jq"
name: "week1"
---

> JavaScript is a programming language that can be applied to an HTML document and used to create dynamic interactivity on websites.

You can do pretty much anything with JavaScript. We'll start small with simple features such as adjusting layouts, making things happen when buttons are clicked, carousels, and image galleries — but eventually as you get more experienced with the language you'll be able to create games, animated 2D and 3D graphics, full blown database-driven apps, and more.

[Download](media/jquery/bootstrap-basic.zip) the HTML starter site. It's built with [Bootstrap](http://getbootstrap.com)!

[Download](http://jquery.com/download/) jQuery

When to load javascript

    $( document ).ready(function() {

        // Your code here.

    });

Handling click events

    $( "a" ).click(function( event ) {

        event.preventDefault(); // stops the default action of what is clicked from happening

        // hide is a jquery feature that hides the object addressed
        $( this ).hide( "slow" ); // 'this' is a special object used in functions

    });


Selecting Elements by ID

    $( "#myId" ); // Note IDs must be unique per page.

Selecting Elements by Class Name

    $( ".myClass" );

Selecting Elements by Attribute

    $( "input[name='first_name']" ); // this is not the most efficient solution

Selecting Elements by Compound CSS Selector

    $( "#contents ul.people li" );

link Pseudo-Selectors

    $( "a.external:first" );
    $( "tr:odd" );

    // Select all input-like elements in a form (more on this below).
    $( "#myForm :input" );
    $( "div:visible" );

    // All except the first three divs.
    $( "div:gt(2)" );

    // All currently animated divs.
    $( "div:animated" );

Manipulating Classes

    $("div").addClass("kittens"); // adds class "kittens" to all <div> elements
    $("div").removeClass("kittens"); // removes class "kittens" from all <div> elements

Manipulating CSS Properties

    $("#myId").css("color", "blue") // makes text color blue on element #myElement
